0
""
"Welcome to r/science! This is a heavily moderated subreddit in order to keep the discussion on science. However, we recognize that many people want to discuss how they feel the research relates to their own personal lives, so to give people a space to do that, **personal anecdotes are now allowed as responses to this comment**. Any anecdotal comments elsewhere in the discussion will continue to be removed and our [normal comment rules]( https://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/rules#wiki_comment_rules) still apply to other comments.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/science) if you have any questions or concerns.*"
"Unfortunately my parents always framed chores as a form of punishment. It wasn’t until I was in my 30’s that it all clicked. Chores are something that need to be done regardless, if I’m not doing it, someone else will have to, or we will all be living in filth. Since I reframed chores as, “I do this because I am worthy of living in a clean home”, chores have actually become almost fun. Sure, chores can teach kids a lot, but it also has to be taught to them why we do chores."
[removed]
"Every Sunday my brother and I helped my mom clean the house. One of us would clean surfaces (end tables, counters, etc) and the other would do windows/mirrors. We took turns but they took about the same time. Always knew to expect that on Sunday morning and mom always had the radio or a CD playing. As we got older we also helped outside with dad. I would usually mow and my brother would weed eat, mostly because I couldn't lug around the big gas weed eater on the side of the hill without digging up dirt. 

I think the key was, we had equal work that didn't take too long, it was at a regular time every week, and our parents were doing similar tasks at the same time so it felt like a family event. 

This was in addition to the general keeping our rooms tidy."
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
"The problem with this kind of observational study is that it's rather difficult to tease out causality.

Does giving your kids chores lead to better performance elsewhere, or do the kids who grow up in households with sufficient parental attention and discipline to impose a chore schedule do better anyways? 

Not to mention that there is a sampling bias, very undisciplined kids might not be able to stick to doing chores regularly. At that point, you're merely pointing out that an A in math correlates with an A in English."
"Does this potentially link generally with parental attention? Neglected kids will probably not be required to do chores, they'll just be left to their own devices. I'm at work so can't read the study right now."
[removed]
[deleted]
"The study, led by PhD candidate Ms Deanna Tepper and published in Australian Occupational Therapy, found that regular chores were associated with better executive functions – planning, self-regulation, switching between tasks and remembering instructions.

Ms Tepper said the study’s results indicate that interventions that incorporate household chore-like activities such as cooking or gardening may be particularly beneficial for children.

“Parents may be able to use age and ability-appropriate chores to facilitate the development of executive functions,” Ms Tepper said.

“Children who cook a family meal or weed the garden on a regular basis may be more likely to excel in other aspects of life – like schoolwork or problem solving.”

The study looked at parents and guardians of 207 children aged between five and 13 years. In mid-2020, the parents/guardians were asked to complete questionnaires on the number of chores their children completed daily and their child’s executive function.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35640882/"
[removed]
"Is this a causal relationship or are those who do chores naturally inclined to have better executive function? This sounds rather like one of those ""Don't forget to do these things that are hard to remember to do, and stay on task with these things, and you'll be better at working memory and staying on task!"""
"Okay so how do you criticize nicely? I was never taught anything but I’m stupid and need to think harder, I want to let these kids know when they do it wrong or how to do it better?"
"Makes sense. It fosters independence, problem solving etc. There’s a huge difference in “work preparedness” among children who have had chores vs. children whose parents are effectively a wait staff/personal assistant etc."
[removed]
"My parents never made me ir my brother do chores or really do much helping around the house, cooking etc. We were kinda poor so I think that was their way of providing for us, but it definitely has made me feel unprepared for so many small things in adulthood."
"As long as it's positive reinforcement and not punishment.

If you reward them with something they like, or show great appreciation, it will be good.

You might have to do something if they're actively refusing to do chores. I'm not sure exactly how. It could probably be some punishment but probably with tact + appreciation and reward when they succeed.

But I'd say taking away everything they like/like to do if they don't do chores perfectly everytime, with no positive appreciation or showing gratitude when they do succeed, will just make them bitter and resentful and won't build character.

Anecdotal source: my upbringing.
I remember when I did put the work in, I was met with apathy and comments that communicated I was expected to fail in the future, and they were not impressed/proud at all."
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
I wish my dad would give my teenage sister and 6 year old sister chores to do. My mom raised my older sister and I as a single parent and we had to clean house starting at a very young age. She also made sure we knew how to feed ourselves in case she was ever out and we were alone.
"So you’re telling me, if I took out the trash more as a kid I would’ve done better in math?"
Parents who are more likely to get their children to do chores are also more likely to push their children to do their homework and perform better academically
[removed]
"I'd agree with this, based on my observation. My SO's kids are great. Smart, kind, generous. But they aren't what I'd call good at problem solving. And their mother (my SO) has always tried to lead by example.

How that really works is that she does 99% of the house work. And I could see how that might have affect the kids. I've seen them basically get stuck in simple situations because they don't know what to do."
"OK but when I was a kid I didn't do chores because I didn't HAVE any executive functioning. Now I'm 50 and I hire a cleaner with the money I make from the job where I can hyperfocus on one thing. 

(And, yeah, I clicked through to the article and there is absolutely nothing that demonstrates which way the correlation/causation goes.)"
[removed]
[removed]
"How about we stop calling them chores, and normalize kids just cleaning up after themselves?"
"Does anyone have an idea on how to start implementing some sort of chores assignment for a 9 year old, in a way thats really more about teaching these organization and prioritizing ideas rather than just the end goal of having the chores done?"
"Growing up I had regular chores. I was supposed to do the dishes when I came home from school (neglecting to do that one a lot) and then I weekends I was in charge of dusting and vacuuming and had to do it before I could go play and do the things I wanted to do. I also was in charge of mowing our 3 acre lawn when it was needed.

I think it helped that my mom grew up in a small family farm and viewed these contributions as just things the family did as family contributions. They also told me they wouldn’t pay me for the chores because it was just what being part of a family was about. I think they may have eventually paid me for mowing just because it took a little while and cut into a chunk of my weekend.

It was annoying as a kid, but as an adult I understand what they were doing and I’m thankful for it."
Chores sound fine.  my parents treated me like an indentured servant.  It didn't stop until they died.
So basically the same as MMOs
"I wonder how much of this is simply diagnostic in nature. Trying to force something like this on an ADHD brain or other non-neurotypical brain will flame out spectacularly, but will give a parent closer exposure to the trouble a kid has trying to do it, then get both the kid and them help earlier, and thus giving a kid better starting position with school than they would have had waiting for teachers and counselors to suss it out."
I have fond memories of Saturday cleaning.  My mom would blast Depeche Mode violator on our Sony five disk changer and we’d clean our tiny Queens apartment.  I still play this album today at age 37 to clean my apartment.
"My father found it useful to task me and my sister with chores as he saw them rather than using thrm as a teaching opportunity or to acquire vital life skills beyond “listen through the lazy tyrant”.

Never got an allowance either"
Did my mom write this?
Did my mom write this?
"I'll probably get slated for this, but being required to do chores was one of the main things that caused me to leave home at 16 going on 17. I felt that if I was going to have to do regular chores without having any say in important decisions (such as where we were going to live, and my mother at that time had unilaterally decided to move without any discussion), I might as well live independently."
Didn't work that way for me. Maybe because they were overly critical jerks about it.
"I remember when our parents tried tying doing chores to our pocket money, so I just rationalised „ye I‘d pay that kind of money to not do chores“ and just didn‘t do them"
Not in my experience. My mom would order me around like some slave to do chores. I became a very anxious person and it didn't help with my academics.
"Yeah, unless you’re required to do all the chores. Then it robs you of a childhood."
"My kid's have always had a very limited amount of chores to do.  Unload the dishwasher, occasionally yard help or taking out the trash  is basically all.  They're both straight A students and my oldest is the most organized person I know and on the National Honor Society and she probably does the least around the house.  I actually never force her to clean her room when she was younger and now she's the neatest person in the house.  She learned to be responsible for her own stuff because it felt better rather than being told she had to.  Sometimes kids told what to do wait for you to tell them rather than knowing they can do it on their own or suffer their own consequences."
"In addition, my anecdotal evidence suggests that this may also lead to your child not giving the smallest of fucks about home chores in their late 20s"
"As long as the parents also join in, and not use their children as miniature slaves, sure."
I am living proof that this is not true. However I may be an outlier in the data set.
"the key to success in our world is absolutely delayed gratification

there are so many precision milled gratification mechanisms in society and in your pocket these days, you have to train yourself and your kids that work comes first, always"
oh look! the obvious train is passing by.
"Headline: Teaching your kids about discipline and responsibility at a young age will help them in other areas of their life.

Jfc, I hate that this isn’t obvious."
Helps if it's not just one kid doing all of the chores too
"Not to mention they’ll generally know how to cook, clean and do laundry and other basic things when they move out and are on their own."
"Is this one of those things where ""parents that get their kids to do chores"" is just a proxy for ""wealthy parents""."
"A lot of kids chores, or the popular understanding of ‘kids chores’ are based around living in a single family home. The excerpt about cooking a family meal or weeding the garden, you can only do those things if you have the ingredients and a lawn. You know who generally has the time, money, and access to go grocery shopping for a ‘family meal’? People with money. You know what kind of people have big enough living spaces that require extra effort to keep tidy? People with money. You know who has a garden or a lawn to weed or mow? People with money. You know who can incentive kids with an allowance or reward for completing chores? People with money. Who has the time and energy to implement a healthy chore schedule? You know.

That’s not to discredit the study, it makes sense and seems like the data supported their hypothesis. But if it is indeed true, it’s just another example of how the children of the lower class and poverty are put immediately behind the eight ball. And it creates a cycle that’s terribly hard to break free of: lower executive functions leads to less success in early schooling, leads to less of a desire to excel academically, leads to lower HS grades, leads to less University opportunities, leads to less and lower paying job opportunities."
[removed]
"Is this a causation, or a correlation? Maybe those parents were just better at teaching how to think and act like a high performer?"
[removed]
"Children that make up the majority of reddit are not going to like to hear this, and will probably spend a considerable effort trying to discredit this study, as it may mean it'll cut into their video game playing time."
No kidding. Also work ethic and self discipline.
[removed]
LPT: teach your child to find/date another person who had similar life responsibilities growing up (such as chores and acidemia) they will intrinsically communicate better.
[removed]
A parent totally wrote this.
What if that's the other way around? Having good executive function makes it easier to do chores and be succesfull later in life
[removed]
"My kiddo is an exception. Her duties were to do her homework and be a kid. She would volunteer to help me with chores a lot, but it was never required. 

She graduated high school with a 4.67 GPA and is in her senior year at university"
Does this account for the possibility that having higher executive functioning skills could make it more likely for child to DO chores?
"Explain me then, I'd rather just take the quick belt whipping then put the dishes away.

I'm only one in my family with a college degree"
[removed]
"We don’t call them chores. We called them, “home serenity contributions…” 

I grew up with a solid 2-3 hours required chores every Saturday and it was horrible. I vowed never to do it to my own kids. Then I started reading about Montessori methods and how to instill a sense of self mastery in kids. If they never participate or contribute, how will they master challenges or structure their work to accomplish their daily tasks? It has to be age appropriate but just doing small things daily- sorting laundry or loading the dishwasher, it helped them problem solve and complete tasks. They learned most problems have a solution. 

It’s actually shocking that my kids friends don’t know how to cook or do their own laundry. My 16 year old can tinker with our ancient lawn mower and get it working again. Independence and confidence in your own abilities and the ability to finish something you begin- it comes down to chores."
"Yeah but have you ever tried to get a kid with an executive function disorder to do a chore (e.g., a multi stepped task which requires attention and working memory).  It is associated because executive functions are required to complete chores.  Lame study."
I guess picking rocks up out of the yard every day one summer break is why I did so well in school
Perhaps this is because expecting kids with poor executive function to do chores is unrealistic
"It's worth mentioning though that chores =/= free manual labor.

Getting kids involved in the home responsibility that they're a part of (i.e. taking care of, keeping things clean, cooking a meal) help see the necessity/value and helps them understand planning to accomplish tasks.

For non-maintenance/upkeep items a lot of parents fail to involve children in the decision making process and essentially force them into tasks that they have virtually no stake in. Elective things, say for example remodeling a play room. If the kids arent involved in the discussion and decision making to remodel their playroom, understanding that there is a task they're undertaking, then it quickly becomes a ""senseless chore"".

I've seen it and experienced it myself. Parents undergo an endeavor that they think the kids will like like buying a fixer upper cottage and not include them in the decision making process, then the only experience they have with this ""thing"" is work that they didn't sign up for and it breeds resentment. Parents think the kids are ungrateful etc.

It's crit"
"My girlfriend’s kid, who is an adult now, thinks it was child abuse to have them help with chores. Not surprisingly their apartment is a garbage dump."
"Forcing, coersing or emotionally manipulating your kid to do chores will accomplish exactly the opposite. Your kids deserve as much respect from you as you deserve from them."
But its also just childhood trauma if they have ADHD.
