0
""
"Welcome to r/science! This is a heavily moderated subreddit in order to keep the discussion on science. However, we recognize that many people want to discuss how they feel the research relates to their own personal lives, so to give people a space to do that, **personal anecdotes are now allowed as responses to this comment**. Any anecdotal comments elsewhere in the discussion will continue to be removed and our [normal comment rules]( https://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/rules#wiki_comment_rules) still apply to other comments.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/science) if you have any questions or concerns.*"
"When your teenagers don’t seem to hear you, it’s not simply that they don’t want to clean their room or finish their homework: Their brains aren’t registering your voice the way they did in pre-teenage years.

Around age 13, kids’ brains no longer find their moms’ voices uniquely rewarding, and they tune into unfamiliar voices more, a new study from the Stanford School of Medicine has found.

The research, which was published April 28 in the Journal of Neuroscience, used functional MRI brain scans to give the first detailed neurobiological explanation for how teens begin to separate from their parents.

“Just as an infant knows to tune into her mother’s voice, an adolescent knows to tune into novel voices,” said lead study author Daniel Abrams, PhD, clinical associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences. “As a teen, you don’t know you’re doing this. You’re just being you: You’ve got your friends and new companions and you want to spend time with them. Your mind is increasingly sensitive to and attracted to these unfamiliar voices.”

In some ways, teens’ brains are more receptive to all voices — including their mothers’ — than the brains of children under 12, the researchers discovered, a finding that lines up with teenagers’ increased interest in many types of social signals.
However, in teenage brains, the reward circuits and the brain centers that prioritize important stimuli are more activated by unfamiliar voices than by those of their mothers. The brain’s shift toward new voices is an aspect of healthy maturation, the researchers said.

https://www.jneurosci.org/content/early/2022/04/06/JNEUROSCI.2018-21.2022"
"Good age to get your kids involved with other trusted adults.  Apprenticeships, coaching, clubs.  Someone made a joke about rehoming, but hey, we have foreign exchange students.  Why not other kinds of rehoming opportunities?"
Can this apply to a father's voice as well?
[deleted]
So when do their voices reward again? Im in my late 20’s and love when my mom calls or when I get to see her.
[deleted]
"The second part of this post title regarding *why* this happens is speculative, and I see no evidence that it has been explicitly tested. Granted, it’s lifted straight from a lay news/promotion piece from Stanford, but even the neuroscientists they’re quoting seem to take these hand-wavy, just-so explanations as fact. I encourage everyone to be skeptical of untested evolutionary explanations, especially regarding human behavior where experimental validation can be extremely challenging and where our inherent perceptual biases are very difficult to overcome. We can’t make scientific claims based on what “makes sense,” and this Stanford team should do better."
[removed]
"I wonder if changing your voice would make the teenagers listen to you again, like change of tone, using accents, varying pitch. Would my daughter start listening to me again if I sported a British accent?"
"Aww, this makes me sad."
">The switch toward unfamiliar voices happened in these brain centers between 13 and 14 years of age, and there was no difference between boys and girls.

Interesting. I'm surprised that there isn't a difference between boys and girls considering their age differences during puberty."
[removed]
[removed]
"My 12 and 15 year-olds seem to specifically HATE the sound of my voice, so this does check out."
What if my kid recognize more the voice of his father?
"I'd be interested to know if this holds true cross-culturally.

Does the Western expectation of adolescence as a process of separation play in to this?"
I’m happy to have a scientific explanation of why they began ignoring me at that age……
So...at 13 I should start speaking to my kids through a speech synthesis device? Got it.
"What about kids who are raised by someone else? Like a grandmother or single father? Is it the same for any authority figure who raises you?

Or if you have a mom, but she's not the primary care giver?"
[removed]
This study is very interesting as that age also coincides with coming-of-age rituals in many diverse cultures across the world.
Life pro tip for parents: Just talk in a lower voice with an accent once your kids turn 13
Do parents voices ever shift away from hearing their kids voices? I can swear my daughter and sons voices are like jackhammers on my attention span! ;-)
I’m a mom of a 13 year old. This is making me sad
"So, we were right all along when thinking our teens don't listen to us."
not me im 43 and its still mummy
I only have one more year till my kids brain doesn’t light up when I talk to him?! Nooo
Is this why boys generally become little shits to their mom around this age?  I was certainly no exception
Genuinely curious: What does this say about those kids who are overly attached to their parents at this age?
"This quite interesting to read as someone who never really experienced this. Was diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder when I was 29 and it might explain the relative lack of linguistic mirroring of my peers. I grew up largely mirroring my father's linguistic tendencies across the board, and he has a somewhat unusual Glaswegian (Scottish) accent likely influenced by his own heavily suspected ASD.

I've had other Glaswegians thinking I was not from Glasgow due my lack of using dialect and my somewhat hard to place accent (some influence of my Norwegian mother's accent may have been another influence). Never had the common teenage impulse to distance myself from my parents either and remained very open and close to my parents. I found it interesting as a teen when meeting a friend's parents, as my friends would often have very different speech patterns.

Seems I kind of followed the rule of ""if it ain't broke then don't fix it"" growing up! I also never experienced the lack of tuning in to my parent's voices. ALL voices got my attention. I wonder if this experience is perhaps similar for others with certain developmental disorders like ASD."
[removed]
[removed]
Conversely they never listen to their fathers in the first place so nothing ever changes there
[removed]
"I always had more interest for my parents than for other, and now my parents died 4 years ago But I still have no interest or little interest for other. Does that make me abnormal?I actually cannot relate to the statement of this study.I am 37 years old and I was always like that."
"Just stepping in to mention this study was only of 24 teenagers, none of them had been diagnosed with any mental disorders, and they all lived with their biological mothers.

I am not attempting to invalidate the study, but it will be interesting to see if this research holds true at larger sample sizes."
Any mom could have verified this for Stanford.
"But what about the rudeness, the bad hygiene, and never cleaning her room?"
And the resulting strife makes it easier for parents to let them go.
"I can attest to this so much as I train kids in sports from ages 2.5yrs old to 14yrs old.
The difference as they get older & how much they soak up your presence, opinion, coaching, & the young kids are like that if they don’t have father figure in life but others look to parents for assurance of what I say the first couple practices."
[removed]
"What I struggle to understand is how something like this evolved! Does this mean that, over the span of millennia, cavechildren who had less dopamine released as a result of their mother’s voice around the age of 13 were more likely to survive?

The less complex stuff is pretty straight forward: upright human sees further, lives longer. But the nuances of our development seem infinitely more complex from an evolutionary perspective"
So they're saying children's brains are still developing at 13 years of age? Probably shouldn't allow them to be making any life altering and/or permanent decisions then.
"Ahhhh….so I may not be the reason my kid will be a total jagoff when he’s this age. 

Good."
probably in western culture. in Asian cultures mother's voice still weighs even in laste fifties
"This study seems rather hindered by its insistence on ""mother"" rather than primary care giver. Jeez, what century are we in?"
This is why y’all need to actually treat them like people because you’re not always going to be the only authority in their lives
13?  I call BS.  I've got very reliable first hand experience that they develop this nowadays around 9-10.
[removed]
What if that child is around adult siblings ?
"One of my family members is also a teenager. She has a weird voice over when she talks. She speaks so fast and sounds so old, but she's just like an old person. It's interesting to get perspective on how people talk to each other over the course of a day."
"Freud called it the genital stage, where we start to look outside the family for sexual gratification to possess"
Here I am at 32 and I’d kill to hear my mom’s voice again
Is the change due to biology or society? Would be interested to see the same study done in different nations
And….Mother’s Day is next weekend
"Damn this makes sense!  Super good kid, attentive and caring, all of a sudden I'm the wah-wah Charlie Brown's Teacher voice to him."
"So what exactly is this saying? At around 13 or puberty, teens get sick of hearing their mothers voice?"
"What about a step mother? I know biologically a mother is blood, but would they consider a step mother a mother figure and also drown them out, or would they understand they’re not blood and listen to them the same"
And what about teens who grew up with only father or minimal interface with their biological mother?
