0
""
"Welcome to r/science! This is a heavily moderated subreddit in order to keep the discussion on science. However, we recognize that many people want to discuss how they feel the research relates to their own personal lives, so to give people a space to do that, **personal anecdotes are now allowed as responses to this comment**. Any anecdotal comments elsewhere in the discussion will continue to be removed and our [normal comment rules]( https://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/rules#wiki_comment_rules) still apply to other comments.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/science) if you have any questions or concerns.*"
[removed]
[removed]
"Playing video games is a mentally engaging task. Depending on the game, it requires fast decision making, real-time problem solving, coordination of fine motor skills, etc. Another activity like this is music, which demonstrates similar mental improvements. Using social media and watching TV are usually more passive activities, requiring little thought."
"Researchers at Karolinska Institutet have studied how the screen habits of US children correlate with how their cognitive abilities develop over time. They found that the children who spent an above-average time playing video games increased their intelligence more than the average, while TV watching or social media had neither a positive nor a negative effect. The results are published in the journal Scientific Reports.

Children are spending more and more time in front of screens. How this affects their health and whether it has a positive or negative impact on their cognitive abilities are hotly debated. For this present study, researchers at Karolinska Institutet and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam specifically studied the link between screen habits and intelligence over time.

Over 9,000 boys and girls in the USA participated in the study. At the age of nine or ten, the children performed a battery of psychological tests to gauge their general cognitive abilities (intelligence). The children and their parents were also asked about how much time the children spent watching TV and videos, playing video games and engaging with social media.

Followed up after two years
Just over 5,000 of the children were followed up after two years, at which point they were asked to repeat the psychological tests. This enabled the researchers to study how the children’s performance on the tests varied from the one testing session to the other, and to control for individual differences in the first test. They also controlled for genetic differences that could affect intelligence and differences that could be related to the parents’ educational background and income.

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-11341-2"
[removed]
"I wonder if they compared with kids that played something else an equal amount of time, like legos, or building forts.  By the title it looks like they compared it to watching TV.

I would think anything interactive would improve your brain over sitting still while a TV is on."
"It atleast keeps you mentally active. I can hardly sit through tv anymore because of the length of just stopping, a movie is different because it’s just an enclosed story so I’m ready to be subject to the extended period of brain dead it creates."
"Video games teach skill acquisition and problem solving.

Most gamers play more than one game. In order to be ""good at video games"" you need to be able to learn the fundamentals quickly and catch up with veteran players skill levels *quick* to get any enjoyment out of it, especially with online multi-player elements - you literally see how it's done when they do it to you, so you copy and combine strategies and make your own playstyle.

So naturally when it comes to learning anything else, gamers have an advantage because they're learning how to learn and practicing practicing."
[removed]
[removed]
"Where was this research when my dad decided to send me to Hidden Lake Academy for video game addiction?  I played a few nights from like 11pm-3am because I could play without judgement when everyone was asleep.  Shipped off to hell on earth (Hitler's Last Achievement, for those who attended)..."
[removed]
Does this apply for FPS genre? Or which genre does this apply to?
[removed]
"Ok, whoa.

When I drill down to the actual research, I see nowhere in there where they evaluate what the breakdown was for what kids did *when they didn't play video games or watch TV.*

* Are they people that simply don't have access to it? (That's an economic factor that's *impossible* to account for).
* Were they sitting in a corner doing nothing?
* Were they simply hanging out in a mall?
* Or were they engaged in learning and self-motivated projects on their own?

This is one of those studies with too quickly repeated titles that people will simply throw out there as ""Well, they proved there is nothing wrong with it."""
[removed]
May I ask who funded the study?
"I've been playing games my entire childhood, and while I don't disagree that some games do improve cognitive performance, I'm disappointed by the source study's lack of defining what ""gaming"" is (they explicitly said they didn't account for game genre).

The dataset did not account for genre so overall this study is not really as useful for parents. I'm confident that a kid who grew up playing Roblox Crab Game is going to have vastly different cognitive experience than a kid who grew up playing Kerbal Space Program. 

Likewise could be said about watching TV or videos online. A kid who only watches Finger Family videos will probably have different cognitive experience from a kid who goes out of their way to watch science documentaries. The study controls for social economic status, but doesn't account for genre/type of media, which may have just as big (if not more) of an impact on the outcome."
[removed]
[removed]
"Writing macros was tough work as a child, not worth the 2 years 7 months of playing time I put into wow over the years though. Idk maybe it was I learned a lot of stuff, like what a tacostamp is."
"My argument that video games is,  in many cases, are a much more proactive use of free time and far more beneficial than just watching Netflix... yet people always think I'm crazy for that.

What I find crazy,  is that someone who literally binges dozens of hours a week on Netflix can think that me spending a few hours a week playing elden ring a waste of time."
I am not surprised.  There is a lot of problem solving in playing games.
Unfortunately the study also found that they only use this increased intelligence to develop more and more linguistically complex methods to tell you that they've fucked your mum
"To be clear, this just means video games are better than social media or TV.  It is not saying that video games are a good method of increasing intelligence, just better than those"
[removed]
"I compare watching TV and Video Games like eating. On one hand a subject is being fed by someone else, the other subject picks up the spoon and eats themselves."
"There's so much stupid in this study that I don't even know where to start.

1) it's been well documented that video games, as a mentally engaging task, is mentally stimulating. there's already been research into how it slows the onset of Alzheimer's and similar neurodegenerative disorders.

2) It's been shown that television is a passive activity that does not.

So this is saying 'healthy mental activity is better than unhealthy mental activity'. However, by comparing to the average, in an uncontrolled study, what we *actually* show is that the average daily activities are unhealthier than video games."
"Games are simulations where you get to try out different ideas/tactics, and there's an immediate reward for success. It's a learning model."
"Video games take a bit of hand eye coordination, thinking, problem solving. You don't even have to have two braincells to rub together to participate on social media or watch entertainment."
"Not only games are an excellent way to learn concept, work on your memory but also teachs you the most valuable skill of our time: How to use internet to find pertinent information"
[removed]
"I hate these kind of clickbait articles because they generally ignore that it matters WHAT the kids are watching - a kid watching documentaries and science shows, for example, will test out very differently vs one watching entertaining cartoons instead."
"How about the kids that read books and played a musical instrument?

same as the gamers?

I don't know neither group existed when I was a kid. I can't imagine going to highschool with social media, honestly it sounds like a nightmare."
[removed]
[removed]
"Shogun Total War, Europa Universalis series, Eve Online

Just a few games that taught me a lot of stuff as a kid/teen. History/geography especially but in the case of MMOs like Eve Online they also taught me a lot in English; words and grammar but also a little bit of business/maths, and hell, let's throw in leadership skills. I would like to see dickhead middle manager John at the office keep together the herd of cats I played with for several years...

 I imagine Cities Skylines could get a lot of people into infrastructure as well."
"I read the article and read part of the paper (and skimmed the rest), so I really hope I didn't miss information that would clearly answer my questions already. I saw they were handling socioeconomic status (SES). Does SES already incorporate quality of prior and current education (where a quality education may provide more curriculum that also targets the same cognitive processes (""cognitive processes: attention, working memory, spatial manipulation, processing speed, reasoning, reading comprehension, long-term memory, and others"")?

If I read this naively, I could draw the conclusion that adding video games to a curriculum would generally just be a net benefit. But I am wondering if the effect of video games is making up for a gap in the US educational system, which is often decried as becoming worse and worse overall (I am not stating how factual that cry is).

Let's say the comparison was against only high-quality educational institutes or countries that have demonstrated a high level of competence for education (I know that's a bit of a vague benchmark), would the conclusions be similar because of accounting for SES or not?"
"Probably need to separate games into addiction hells, social sandboxes and competitive."
The very big plus I got from gaming are my „english-skills“ I know its still not the best but in comparison to my non-gaming friends seems my english like Im living in the us/uk since birth
"I think this is backwards. If you tend to enjoy more passive entertainment, you read and learn less, you watch TV more. If you tend to enjoy more active entertainment, you enjoy games and learning new stuff and stories. The real question is - what makes us more active or more passive? I believe there is a social component to it. If you are more social, you blend in better, but you have more compromises/less self-effective activity. If you are less social, you find it easier to concentrate on stories and concepts, because nobody disturbs you.

In other words: if you have vivid imagination and your mind likes to be active, you prefer to play and create  the story instead of just consuming what others have created for you."
"“Increased their intelligence”

No. That has causal implications. It is correlational. The children were not systematically directed to play video games and measured at pre and post intervention against non-gaming group.

Other possible reasons for this link:

1. People with higher IQ’s are attracted to more stimulating activities like gaming. It didn’t cause their IQ’s to increase, but instead, higher IQ’s flocked to gaming.

2. These individuals have higher IQ’s, which is linked to higher socioeconomic status. Their higher socioeconomic status allowed them to afford computers, gaming systems, subscriptions to gaming services, etc. Lower IQ children have poorer backgrounds and didnt have as much access to gaming platforms.

I’m sure others here could come up with other lines of reasoning that could exist."
"As a physician that performs lots of procedures, most with some component of imaging guidance, I know for a fact that playing video games as a kid now makes me better at my job. 

You have to be good at manipulating your hands to make something move on a screen, which is exactly what a video game is."
[removed]
"This seems loaded. How can you say that spending whole day on Reddit's /memes is anywhere near as productive as spending the same time on /askhistorians ?

I mean, quality vs quantity dilemma."
"Where does sitting down and reading a book fall into this (for fun, like a fantasy book or something, not like actual non fiction ofc)? I can see an argument for both ways; in one you're actively reading, ingesting, and formulating information but on the other side thats kind of what TV and audiobooks are, right? Its presenting the same information in a different way but with no 'interaction' on your part like a game"
I’d like to know impact this had on social skills and emotional intelligence as well
[removed]
[removed]
Almost like puzzle solving and hand eye coordination might be useful to the brain…
"I am a bit sceptical here. There could be a lot mediator variables. For example, a more wealthy household can afford an own computer for each child, while low income households might not have one at all."
[deleted]
"Increase intelligence, sharp decreased in social skills. Also it’s not shocking in the slightest that this article is a smash hit for Redditors. Positive correlation right there"
"There's a book that touches on this topic, Everything Bad Is Good For You. It's an interesting read.
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36085.Everything_Bad_is_Good_for_You?from_search=true"
"interactive entertainment does exercise the brain.  
competitive multiplayer games increases your reaction time and quick thinking. 
it also teaches patience (with your team)."
My kid is a gamer and can type like 100wpm
"I’m not surprised, I can feel myself turn dumb watching average TV shows."
[removed]
Does this correct for socioeconomic factors? Potentially parents who can afford more luxury items like video games have other benefits going for them too.
"Let’s be real. Lots of games (not just video games) require some level of problem solving, some more the others. The main take away is you need to either think deeply to figure stuff out or usually take situational awareness and act quickly.

Versus other forms of media that don’t require that, like tv, social media, or hell you can read a book and get nothing from it. All those for,s of media can produce similar activity, but it is not a blocker to engage in it."
I have a career in IT because of how much I learned from video games.
I'd be curious to see a breakdown by native language as obviously using voice chat in English when you normally speak Spanish is going to increase your intelligence.
"Now I am curious, by how much pro players compared to non-pro players with the same age in like really competitive games."
"All those hours spent playing Runescape finally validated, can't wait to tell my parents!"
When I was in University my grades peaked with my diamond rank in League. I always thought it was interesting. I could never do it now that I'm in the workforce. My mind feels like it's getting duller everyday.
Of course winning in civ 6 on deity takes some iq
Tell that to league of legends players
