0
""
"Welcome to r/science! This is a heavily moderated subreddit in order to keep the discussion on science. However, we recognize that many people want to discuss how they feel the research relates to their own personal lives, so to give people a space to do that, **personal anecdotes are now allowed as responses to this comment**. Any anecdotal comments elsewhere in the discussion will continue to be removed and our [normal comment rules]( https://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/rules#wiki_comment_rules) still apply to other comments.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/science) if you have any questions or concerns.*"
[removed]
[removed]
"At some point, *doing things* stops being an option without help. I wonder if food prep and delivery services would be a helpful anti-depression service for mental health."
Food prep and cleaning dishes is so hard when you’re depressed. I think the constant cleaning a kitchen is what makes it hard to eat well.
"Young men with depression often have trouble going to kitchen and cooking a proper meal. Also, depending on where you live, the diet described can be expensive."
"Young men with a poor diet saw a significant improvement in their symptoms of depression when they switched to a healthy Mediterranean diet, a new study shows.

Depression is a common mental health condition that affects approximately 1 million Australians each year. It is a significant risk factor for suicide, the leading cause of death in young adults.

The 12-week randomised control trial, conducted by researchers from the University of Technology Sydney, was recently published in the peer-reviewed American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

Lead researcher Jessica Bayes, a PhD candidate in the UTS Faculty of Health, said the study was the first randomised clinical trial to assess the impact of a Mediterranean diet on the symptoms of depression in young men (aged 18-25).

“We were surprised by how willing the young men were to take on a new diet,” Bayes said. “Those assigned to the Mediterranean diet were able to significantly change their original diets, under the guidance of a nutritionist, over a short time frame.”

“It suggests that medical doctors and psychologists should consider referring depressed young men to a nutritionist or dietitian as an important component of treating clinical depression,” she said.

https://academic.oup.com/ajcn/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/ajcn/nqac106/6571247?redirectedFrom=fulltext"
"It is not only the Mediterranean diet. Proper nutrition, exercise, and behavioral changes are all linked to improving mentality. 

You don’t have to be an Olympic athlete, super chef, or insanely happy right out the gate. It’s a life long process so be kind to yourselves."
[removed]
[removed]
"Well that's great and all, but a big part of the problem with depression is that you often lack the energy and motivation to cook a decent meal, or even get out of bed. I can cook, but when my depression is hitting me hard the last thing I wanna do is cooking. I just want some food in me to get rid of the hunger with the least amount of effort. 

Honestly I just wish someone could invent a food pill. Just let me pop a pill with all the calories and nutrients I need so I don't have to think about cooking and eating."
[removed]
"For all the people saying this diet is expensive, unless you're in Alaska then cabbage, carrots, and cucumbers are generally affordable everywhere, year round. Squashes, leafy greens, tomatoes, fruits, berries are cheap seasonally.

Get the bulk of your calories from Legumes and whole grains. Cooked from dry, there's nothing cheaper (or more nutritious). Get an r/instantpot or pressure cooker to make cooking them faster and easier.

Olive oil is like twice the price of canola but at $8/L, less if you're able to buy in bulk, it's not that much. Oily fish, like sprats, sardines, etc. aren't expensive compared to red meat. Nuts are about $4-8 per lb, not bad for a treat."
[removed]
"Completely unrelated, but eating healthier becomes significantly easier when meals are specifically made for you by a team of professional dieticians.

Whenever you see those ""hollywood transformations"" like Chris Pratt etc. you have to realize it's completely unreasonable for the majority of people. Anybody can transform their bodies in 12 months if they have a personal chef curate exactly what they need to eat at every point of the day."
"I'm glad we have a published paper about this.

I am also flabbergasted sometimes that we don't already have extensive research about this. How is this news to anyone? Of course diet affects mental health. You're literally changing the chemistry of the system. Food is pharmaceutical."
[removed]
"So, not to change the subject here, but I can stop eating for days at a time. And when I am eating daily, it's often just one meal. When people talk about Ramadan, it usually just reminds me of my daily life... Food anxiety is a major issue.

I think about food that I want to eat, and it gets cancelled somehow."
"Start with vitamin D. Just do it. If you aren't literally working in a field all day, you should take a certain amount per day, what that is, talk to your doctor about it. It's significant."
"Interesting. I'm diagnosed with depression. I've had diets on both ends of the spectrum from fast food and low quality meals every day to cooking home meals every day with plenty of vegetables, fruit, and managed portions. I personally never felt a difference in my mental health either way."
"I dont think it really matters if its mediterranean tbh
Just eating good in general will help"
Yeah that would probably help if I had fuckin money. Depression has been so bad I can’t work. I’m all alone now why would I cook for no one? Cmon now
What about the young men who can’t even afford a diet like that? I know from experience living in poverty when I was young we were not able to afford nutritious food and I am sure I have suffered my whole life from depression because of it.
"News flash, any managed diet helps."
It doesn’t help that nutritionists are basically chiropractors. Our knowledge of nutrition is really scattered and impacted by fad diets and medical-adjacent fields trying to profit on a fuzzy concept.
"let's see... poor diet to a good diet

\_\_\_

i wonder whats gonna happen?"
"How do they know some of the effect isn't just a correlation between a rebound from depression and someone having the emotional energy to make a significant change in their diet?

Not to say that the foods in the study wouldn't help make you feel better, but it might be more interesting if they prevented someone from becoming depressed in the first place."
I wonder what part omega3 and vitamin d played
[removed]
You mean to tell me that me sitting in my kitchen watching basketball eating a plate full of pizza rolls after working a 10 hour shift at a job I mostly hate isn't good for my depression?
"I love it when every ""Mediterranean diet"" article do an extra effort to erase the presence of red meat, pork, poultry etc. 
  
Anyone who has ever been to Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, Southern France  and other countries of the region are fully aware that those are very present in this diet. People eat meat nearly EVERY DAY. Cultural staples of those nations cuisine are MEAT. 

The difference is PROCESSED vs UNPROCESSED food. Not if you fill yourself up with nuts and fish instead of anything else.

Bottom line, eat diversified food, get as many fresh products as you can, try to get quality products (yeah, even your greens can be absolute garbage filled with chemicals), use more olive oil and less frying oil and STOP DRENCHING YOUR FOOD WITH BATHS OF HEAVY SAUCES. 

No wonder you feel like gargabe if you eat like a trash can. 

Source: I have been in the ""Mediterranean diet"" (whatever this actually means) all my life."
"I switched my diet to include fish, but I am still mostly vegan. It has helped my work performance and focus. I’ve kept the same main client since I got out of rehab in February and I have tapered off almost all of my stimulants. I stopped smoking cigarettes cold turkey years ago and never had an addition to caffeine. I’ve been able to scale my business and hire actual employees. This is the most stable and good I have felt since before the pandemic happened."
"All these dietary-wellness studies compare ""usual diet"" with ""completely new diet,"" and I really want to see them also compare ""usual diet plus a good daily multivitamin."" There's no indication here whether you need the whole package of different foods to improve your health, or it's just a matter of getting the right micronutrients, whatever the source, and maybe cutting down on excess fat and sugar.

Because if it's the latter, you could help *millions* of people who are not in a position to act on ""Hey! Depressed guy! Just start shopping at Whole Foods and cooking from scratch three meals a day!""

There's a lot of folks who are more interested in yelling at you to be more virtuous than actually helping people find solutions that work for them."
"Okay but toasted nuts taste like a million times better than raw, even without salt"
"Now watch as the comments mimic depression by some offering unhelpfully idealistic answers, some offering roadblocks, some actively against the premise of the above title, and some realism that doesn't fit in with the previous. At the end, the status quo is maintained and we're all idiots for trying to contribute.
I think therapy is working, but I struggle to tell. Maybe I should diet..."
The obvious increase in *income* to make the diet possible wasn't considered a contributory factor?
[removed]
">Young men with a poor diet saw a significant improvement in their symptoms of depression when they switched to a healthy Mediterranean diet.

Adding pineapple to your diet can stimulate *human growth hormone* (HGH) and lift depression, bring more energy, etc."
It’s so weird how annoyed people get when you try to tell them that eating healthier and working out can ease their depression
